let's bring in Mar Bashar who's our
senior political analyst Marin the
goings on toing and throwing in New York
quite interesting isn't it it was the
vote was due to take place this morning
New York time then was pushed forward
several hours and now it's been brought
back again going to take place in less
than an hour apparently now unless it
changes again what's going on well
there's clearly a lot of uh behind the
scene pressures uh on the Biden
Administration to at least abstain like
it did last time uh because the the
urgency of the situation is becoming uh
untolerable uh as portrayed by the UN
Secretary General uh both by calling for
the meeting and in his speech the
unraveling of genocide in Gaza is
becoming truly unbearable and it's
exposing uh
America's uh lack of credibility on this
issue the way it's blindingly following
in Israel's footstep without acting like
a the super superpower it is in the
sense that it does have legal moral
strategic diplomatic and other
responsibilities it also has
responsibility towards the American
people I mean let's all remember that
uh that some 70% of the American people
are not happy with the way Biden is
managing the war in Gaza I mean imagine
I mean he's he's in an election year
he's not not just that the International
Community opposes the way America stands
alone basically in its blind support of
Israel's war crimes in Gaza the American
public opinion in its majority does not
support Biden's uh blinded support to
Israel and the continuation of gor and
Gaza so what the International Community
is asking what the majority of the
general assembly is asking what the what
all the Arab and Muslim majority
countries are asking what a good number
of European countries are asking is for
a ceasefire they're not asking for you
know end of the occupation as they
should right the end of ethnic cleansing
the end of um the dispossession of the
Palestinians the end of Israel's nuclear
uh you know power status they're just
asking for Aire after 60 days of
non-stop bombardment that's been
compared to one the Allies bombings of
German cities during Second World War
and the German bombings of London cities
during World War and those happened over
two years now we're talking about two
months of comparable bombings of Gaza so
what the International Community what
apparently the majority of the UN
Security Council Members are asking the
United States to do is not to move on
with Israel to the dark side it's just
simply stop the war right it's a US
isolated on this I think it's worthwhile
listening to the US spokesman again to
what he said uh to the UN and then we'll
have another
child and as of today Hamas continues to
pose a threat to Israel and remain in
charge of
Gaza that is not a threat that any one
of our governments would allow to
continue to remain on our own
borders not after the worst attack on
our people in several
decades for that reason while the United
States strongly supports a durable peace
in which both Israelis and Palestinians
can live in peace and security we do not
support calls for an immediate
ceasefire that's Robert Wood and curious
because he was talking about our people
and our borders and just before that
when he talked about you know any member
of States would not accept any such
threat on our
borders but Israel is not dealing with
just our borders need dealing with the
occupied territories on its borders it's
occupied territories for 56 plus years
so the people in Gaza are occupied under
sieg and most of them are refugees from
areas that are today Israel so this is
not just the United States dealing with
Mexico this is the United this is the
United States dealing with I don't know
occupied Iraq for example right but this
is on its borders and its occupied
second thing is when he start confusing
our people with their people calling
their people our people they just go to
tell you that this is a culmination of
two months of American officials parting
Israeli officials repeating one sound
bite after another deceptive sound bites
that the Israelis have come up with and
Americans blindingly doing that and this
is just the deputy Ambassador I what
about the American president why has the
American president been parting
netanyahu's lines and lies everything
from the very beginning of the
decapitation of babies to to weaponizing
the rape of Israeli women
to uh you know talking about things like
uh uh what is happening in Gaza today is
self-defense when we all know that there
is no such a right of self-defense in
occupied territory so when the American
president himself continues to par it
non-stop you won't be surprised when you
hear the um Deputy Ambassador going like
our people their people I'm not sure
it's our people their people as if is is
the 51st state of the United States how
unusual is it in the context of us
backing for Israel for this kind of
support and backing to go on for so long
given the paror state affairs in Gaza
right now you know the best example of
all examples that have to do with this
kind of kind of unconventional war is
the 1982 invasion of Lebanon right
Reagan was one of the staunchest
supporters at least until then among all
American presidents he was a stanch
supporter of Israel he considered Ed
Israel a strategic asset and as Mike
Hannah said in one of the packages that
it's under him although it's also
started under Carter that Israel are
getting more than3 billion dollar a year
now it's getting $4 billion doar a year
in military aid right but Reagan despite
his support for Israel considering it a
strategic asset when Israel invaded
Lebanon started bombing Beirut even not
as much as it's bombing Gaza today
President Reagan on the phone with prime
minister Bean at the time and said you
need to stop the Holocaust against beut
an American President telling an Israeli
Prime Minister you need to stop the
Holocaust which was the bombing the
continuous bombing in beut which doesn't
even compare to the bombing of Gaza
today right and
seven 6 or seven starting with un
Security Council resolution 508 509 I
believe 511 512 515 517 the United
States either voted for the UN Security
Council resolution or abstained and all
of these resolutions had to do with stop
the fighting Israel needs to withdraw
from Lebanon stop the bombing in buut
allowing for humanitarian Aid and the
collective punishments against Lebanon
that was Reagan the most stuned then
Israeli American president in support of
Israel now we have a genocide unraveling
in Gaza it's been 60 days it's been
compared to the some of the worst
atrocities in modern times in terms of
the killing of children the attack on
hospitals it's an unraveling genocide
right in modern day times in plain sight
and the Biden Administration won't get
itself not just to not call for a
ceasefire a perent ceasefire it won't
even say to us whether Israel is or is
not today today in violation of
international law or not all all right
well we'll see what happens with the
vote we've got less than an hour to wait
in theory it might yet change again but
we'll see Mar thanks a lot in the
meantime thank you